# Denial-of-service Protection
## SC-05 - Denial-of-service Protection

a. [Protect against or Limit] the effects of the following types of denial-of-service events: [Refer to NIST SP 800-61 and employ ACF-defined security safeguards]; and<br />
b. Employ the following controls to achieve the denial-of-service objective: [i. Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) flood:

* Smurf attack
* Ping of death
* Ping flood

ii. Teardrop attack<br />
iii. Peer-to-peer attacks<br />
iv. Permanent DoS attack (i.e., phlashing)<br />
v. Application level floods:<br />

* Internet Relay Chat (IRC) floods
* Banana attack
* Buffer overflow

vi. Nuke<br />
vii. Distributed DoS attack<br />
viii. Reflected attack<br />
ix. Unintentional attack<br />
x. DoS Level II.] by employing<br /

i. Proper configuration of the information system according to OS standards<br />
ii. Configuring switches and routers to disable forwarding packets to broadcast addresses<br />
iii. Configuring the routers to filter traffic<br />
iv. Employing and properly configuring Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDPS)<br />
v. Using appropriate tools to detect changes in configuration information or other files<br />
vi. Installing patches<br />
vii. Monitoring the application level of the information system<br />
viii. Reviewing server capacity<br />
ix. Monitoring for suspicious amount of data transferred to or from servers within a prescribed period of time<br />
x. Reviewing appropriate bandwidth<br />
xi. Implementing a separate route or circuit for service redundancy.

## OPS Implementation

OPS utilizes multiple layers of protection provided from Azure including the Web Application Firewall (WAF) and Azure's global protections against DDoS at their infrastructure layer.

For AMS's implementation of this control, see the AMS SSP.

### Control Origination

Hybrid with ACF Tech and Azure.

### Related Content
Denial-of-service events may occur due to a variety of internal and external causes, such as an attack by an adversary or a lack of planning to support organizational needs with respect to capacity and bandwidth. Such attacks can occur across a wide range of network protocols (e.g., IPv4, IPv6). A variety of technologies are available to limit or eliminate the origination and effects of denial-of-service events. For example, boundary protection devices can filter certain types of packets to protect system components on internal networks from being directly affected by or the source of denial-of-service attacks. Employing increased network capacity and bandwidth combined with service redundancy also reduces the susceptibility to denial-of-service events.
