# Configuration Management
## CM-7-1 - Least Functionality | Periodic Review

(a) Review the system [upon encountering a significant risk, or at least every 30 days] to identify unnecessary and/or nonsecure functions, ports, protocols, software, and services; and

(b) Disable or remove [functions, ports, protocols, and services within the information system deemed to be unnecessary and/or nonsecure].

## OPS Implementation

a. OPS will be reviewed at least every 30 days whenever it whenever a signifcant risk is identified of unnecessary and/or nonsecure functions, ports, protocols, software, and services.

b. When a review is conducted and action is needed, disabling or removing the unwanted configuration will occur.

The OPS infrastructure as code framework detects when live infrastructure has drifted from the prescribed configuration and re-applies the correct configuration at each application of the IaC. Reporting and review is also conducted on a regular basis that meets or exceeds the requirement for resources that may exist within the Azure infrastructure that are outside the governance of the Infrastructure as Code (IaC). The ACF Tech vulunerability scanning is also a mechanism to help detect unnecessary and insecure configuration.

AMS is a moderate-impact approved authentication and authorization system. For futher details, see the AMS and Azure SSPs.

### Control Origination

Hybrid with ACF Tech and OPS

### Related Content

The review includes functions, ports, protocols, and services provided by systems or system components to determine the functions and services that are candidates for elimination. The review can either decide the relative security of the function, port, protocol, and/or service or base the security decision on the assessment of other entities- unsecure protocols include Bluetooth, FTP, and peer-to-peer networking.
