# Configuration Management
## CM-7 - Least Functionality

a. Configure the system to provide only [ACF-defined mission essential capabilities]; and

b. Prohibit or restrict the use of the following functions, ports, protocols, software, and/or services:

[i. Domain Name System (DNS)<br />
• Port 53 / Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP)

ii. File Transfer Protocol (FTP)<br />
• Ports 20, 21 / TCP

iii. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)<br />
• Port 80 / TCP

iv. Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)<br />
• Port 143 / TCP, UDP

v. Internet Relay Chat (IRC)<br />
• Port 194 / UDP

vi. Network Basic Input Output System (NetBIOS)<br />
• Port 137 / TCP, UDP

vii. Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3)<br />
• Port 110 / TCP

viii. Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)<br />
• Port 5060 / TCP, UDP

ix. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)<br />
• Port 25 / TCP

x. Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)<br />
• Port 161 / TCP, UDP

xi. Structured Query Language (SQL)<br />
• Port 118 / TCP, UDP
• Port 156 / TCP, UDP

xii. Telnet<br />
• Port 23 / TCP].

## OPS Implementation

Part (a): OPS system configuration is implemented based on HHS and ACF standards and guidelines least functionality requirements to only enable services, ports, and protocols that are essential for system functionality. 

Part (b): The most-external facing (ingress) aspects of OPS do not allow any of the afore-mentioned ports for inbound traffic destined for OPS. For AMS or Azure's implementation, please see their respective SSPs.


### Control Origination

Hybrid with Azure and OPS

### Related Content
