# Configuration Management
## CM-12 - Information Location

a. Identify and document the location of [ACF-defined information] and the specific system components on which the information is processed and stored;

b. Identify and document the users who have access to the system and system components where the information is processed and stored; and

c. Document changes to the location (i.e., system or system components) where the information is processed and stored.

## OPS Implementation

a. The OPS Configuration Management Plan contains this information and is part of the ATO package. OPS system components reside within the boundary of the ACF Tech-managed Azure tenancy. OPS uses Azure-native services such as Azure Database and Storage Accounts and for processing and storage of data.

b. Users who have the specified access have been identified and documented for processing. Thusly, users who have access to the Azure tenancy have access to the Azure infrastructure components of OPS.

c. Any changes to the location of the system or its components will be documented as described in the Configuration Management Plan document for change management.


### Control Origination:

Hybrid with Azure and OPS

### Related Content

Information location addresses the need to understand where information is being processed and stored. Information location includes identifying where specific information types and information reside in system components and how information is being processed so that information flow can be understood and adequate protection and policy management provided for such information and system components. The security category of the information is also a factor in determining the controls necessary to protect the information and the system component where the information resides (see FIPS 199). The location of the information and system components is also a factor in the architecture and design of the system (see SA-4, SA-8, SA-17).
