# Contingency Plan
## CP-2 - Contingency Plan

a. Develop a contingency plan for the system that:<br />
1. Identifies essential mission and business functions and associated contingency requirements;<br />
2. Provides recovery objectives, restoration priorities, and metrics;<br />
3. Addresses contingency roles, responsibilities, assigned individuals with contact information;<br />
4. Addresses maintaining essential mission and business functions despite a system disruption, compromise, or failure; <br />
5. Addresses eventual, full system restoration without deterioration of the controls originally planned and implemented;<br />
6. Addresses the sharing of contingency information; and<br />
7. Is reviewed and approved by [[at a minimum, the System Owner (SO), Information System Security Officer (ISSO), and Contingency Plan Coordinator (CPC)];

b. Distribute copies of the contingency plan to [at a minimum, the System Owner, system/network administrators, database administrators, Contingency Plan Coordinators, and other personnel with contingency plan responsibilities [(as designated by the SO) and organizations with support functions in the plan];

c. Coordinate contingency planning activities with incident handling activities;

d. Review the contingency plan for the system [at least every 365 days or when a major change has occurred to the information system];

e. Update the contingency plan to address changes to the organization, system, or environment of operation and problems encountered during contingency plan implementation, execution, or testing;

f. Communicate contingency plan changes to [at a minimum, the System Owner, system/network administrators, database administrators, Contingency Plan Coordinators, and other personnel with contingency plan responsibilities (as designated by the SO) and organizations with support functions in the plan];

g. Incorporate lessons learned from contingency plan testing, training, or actual contingency activities into contingency testing and training; and

h. Protect the contingency plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.

## OPS Implementation

The OPS Contingency Plan (CP) addresses these matters and is part of the OPS ATO package. And the CP:                              
Part (a): <br />
1.	Identifies essential mission and business functions and associated contingency requirements.<br />
2.	Provides recovery objectives, restoration priorities, and metrics.<br />
3.	Addresses contingency roles, responsibilities, assigned individuals with contact information.<br />
4.	Addresses maintaining essential mission and business functions despite a system disruption, compromise, or failure. <br />
5.	Addresses eventual, full system restoration without deterioration of the controls originally planned and implemented.<br />
6.	Addresses the sharing of contingency information; and<br />
7.	Has been reviewed and approved by the OPS  System Owner (SO) and Information System Security Officer (ISSO). 

Part (b): Copies are distributed to at a minimum all individuals who are involved in the Contingency Planning process.

Part (c): Contingency Planning Activities are coordinated with incident handling activities. 

Part (d): Is planned to be reviewed a least every 365 days or when a major change has occurred to the information system. 

Part (e): Will be updated in accordance with changes to the organization, system, or environment of operation and problems encountered during contingency plan implementation, execution, or testing.

Part (f): Changes will be communicated to all relevant stakeholders, at a minimum to the System Owner, system/network administrators, database administrators, Contingency Plan Coordinators, and other personnel with contingency plan responsibilities. 

Part (g):  Will be revised and updated based on the important lessons learned from contingency plan testing, training, or actual contingency activities into contingency testing and training. 

Part (h):  It is protected from unauthorized disclosure and modification through versioning control and only be accessible by authorized roles. 
                          

Regarding Azure and AMS implementation, please see their SSP details.

### Control Origination

Hybrid with Azure, ACF Tech, and OPS

### Related Content

Note: The ITCP includes procedures for activation of the plan; recovery of the system (to the original or alternative location if needed); reconstitution of the system; and test procedures to ensure that the system is fully functional and accessible once it has been restored.
