# System and Services Acquisition
## SA-03 - System Development Life Cycle

a. Acquire, develop, and manage the system using [a formally defined and documented system development life cycle (SDLC) process] that incorporates information security and privacy considerations;

b. Define and document information security and privacy roles and responsibilities throughout the system development life cycle;

c. Identify individuals having information security and privacy roles and responsibilities; and

d. Integrate the organizational information security and privacy risk management process into system development life cycle activities.

## OPS Implementation

a. OPS is developed using Agile software development principles. As part of this, security and privacy is factored into each phase of the development lifecycle. Specifically, the following methodologies are implemented:

- Threat models that are updated at defined intervals and documented centrally
- Automated security testing using both static and dynamic application security testing
- As part of reviews of OPS source code in pull requests, security and privacy is included as part of the review.
- Documentation of security-related decisions in [Architecture Decision Records](../../../adr/), threat models, and code reviews are all centrally codified within our GitHub repository. Content stored within the repository is inherently accessible, version-controlled, retained, and searchable. Security testing results are also accessible within the repository as well.

b.

ISSO<br />
ACF Security Engineer<br />
System Owner<br />
OPRE Tech Lead<br />
Vendor Tech Lead

c. OPS has identified individual roles during the SDLC process. See the governance and ATO process documentation for more information on the named individuals.

d. See the governance and ATO process documentation

### Control Origination:

Hybrid with ACF Tech and OPS

### Related Content

The organization may formally define and document its own SDLC process; however, at a minimum, the process must conform to HHS Department-wide SDLC requirements (including the HHS Enterprise Performance Life Cycle (EPLC)). The organization may adopt the Department-wide SDLC or customize it to meet additional, organization-specific requirements.
