# Assessment, Authorization, and Monitoring
## CA-07 - Continuous Monitoring

Develop a system-level continuous monitoring strategy and implement continuous monitoring in accordance with the organization-level continuous monitoring strategy that includes:

a. Establishing the following system-level metrics to be monitored: [ACF-defined system-level metrics];<br />
b. Establishing [ACF-defined frequencies] for monitoring and [ACF-defined frequencies] for assessment of control effectiveness;<br />
c. Ongoing control assessments in accordance with the continuous monitoring strategy;<br />
d. Ongoing monitoring of system and organization-defined metrics in accordance with the continuous monitoring strategy;<br />
e. Correlation and analysis of information generated by control assessments and monitoring;<br />
f. Response actions to address results of the analysis of control assessment and monitoring information; and<br />
g. Reporting the security and privacy status of the system to [ACF-defined personnel or roles] [ACF-defined frequency]

## OPS Implementation

Parts (a-f): There is no definitive ACF Continous Monitoring Strategy so far and we assume the strategy is an ongoing planned activity.OPS will comply and enforce any requirements when it is developed and implemented. Currently, OPS and its Azure infrastructure is integrated with ACF Tech's Splunk centralized logging system to detect and analyze events of interest. This integration is also used to assess the security and privacy status with ACF Tech. OPS also makes use of Azure Monitor for active monitoring and alerting of various metrics.

Part (g): OPS complies with ACF-tech policies for security and privacy status reporting. See the OPS Security Incident Response Policy for more information. It is included as part of the OPS ATO package.


TODO: drop in inherited text

### Control Origination

Hybrid with Azure, OPS, and ACF Tech (AMS). AMS is a moderate-impact approved authentication and authorization system. For futher details, see the AMS SSP.

### Related Content

HHS/OPRE-OPS#2989
