# Audit and Accountability
## AU-02 - Audit Events

a. Identify the types of events that the system is capable of logging in support of the audit function: [Assignment: organization-defined event types that the system is capable of logging];
 [i. The following events must be identified within server audit logs:
* Server startup and shutdown;
* Loading and unloading of services;
* Installation and removal of software;
* System alerts and error messages;
* User logon and logoff (successful or unsuccessful);
* System administration activities;
* Accesses to sensitive information, files, and systems
* Account creation, modification, or deletion;
* Modifications of privileges and access controls; and,
* Additional security-related events, as required by the System Owner (SO) or to support the nature of the supported business and applications.

ii. The following events must be identified within application and database audit logs:
* Modifications to the application;
* Application alerts and error messages;
* User logon and logoff (successful or unsuccessful);
* System administration activities;
* Accesses to information and files
* Account creation, modification, or deletion; and,
* Modifications of privileges and access controls.
* Read access to sensitive information
* Modification to sensitive information
* Printing sensitive information

iii. The following events must be identified within network device (e.g., router, firewall, switch, wireless access point) audit logs:
* Device startup and shutdown;
* Administrator logon and logoff (successful or unsuccessful);
* Configuration changes;
* Account creation, modification, or deletion;
* Modifications of privileges and access controls; and,
* System alerts and error messages.];

b. Coordinate the event logging function with other organizational entities requiring audit-related information to guide and inform the selection criteria for events to be logged;

c. Specify the following event types for logging within the system: [Unsuccessful log-on attempts that result in a locked account/node;  Configuration changes;  Application alerts and error messages; System administration activities; Modification of privileges and access; and Account creation, modification, or deletion];

d. Provide a rationale for why the event types selected for logging are deemed to be adequate to support after-the-fact investigations of incidents; and

e. Review and update the event types selected for logging within every 365 days and whenever there is a significant system modification.

## OPS Implementation

OPS inherits audit tools and capabilities from Azure and HHS AMS to audit the logs of Developer and OPS user account actions, respectively.

a.i The following events must be identified within server audit logs:
- a.i.1 | Azure logging is available for Azure-native services OPS consumes including but not limited to Azure Container Apps and Azure Database. OPS does not directly use servers in the traditional sense.
- a.i.2 | see a.i.1.
- a.i.3 | Software and dependency management for containers is governed and more closely audited within the GitHub repository where a record of changes can be gleaned.
- a.i.4 | see a.i.1.
- a.i.5 | see a.i.1.
- a.i.6 | Administrative and security functions executed within the OPS app itself are logged and recorded. Activities occurring at the infrastructure/Azure level are also logged via Azure Monitor and other tooling within Azure. OPS is also integrated with ACF Tech's Splunk centralized logging system.
- a.i.7 | At an application level, OPS audits alterations to and additions of PII data. TODO: Tech lead checks further
- a.i.8 | see a.i.1.
- a.i.9 | see a.i.1.
- a.i.10 | TODO: Check with Sheila

a.ii The following events must be identified within application and database audit logs:
- a.ii.1 | Modifications to the application are tracked in the open source repository hosted within the HHS organization on GitHub.com
- a.ii.2 | Frontend (in a user's web browser) alerts and errors send a logging message to the backend as well. Backend errors are logged to a persistent storage. Database-related logs would be inherited from Azure. TODO: make sure we are doing the former or update language
- a.ii.3 | inherited from Login.gov/AMS in terms of login and user-initiated explicit log off. Session expiry/timeout also involves a log out action and would be stored in OPS logs. Azure Database log on and log off events would be inherited from Azure.
- a.ii.4 | Administrative and security functions executed within the OPS app itself are logged and recorded. Activities occurring at the infrastructure/Azure level are also logged via Azure Monitor and other tooling within Azure.
- a.ii.5 | User audit logging is possible at the for the OPS application itself as well as infrastructure/Azure level.  TODO: define what sensitive data is ?
- a.ii.6 | User account provisioning and granting of access to existing AMS accounts is logged and recorded within OPS as well as modifications to any user accounts including locking/disabling of the account. Azure Database account management logging is inherited from Azure TODO: ??
- a.ii.7 | Changes to OPS user role(s)/permissions are logged and recorded within OPS. Changes to user privileges to Azure Database is also available in Azure audit logs. TODO: Inherited from azure ?
- a.ii.8 | TODO: define what sensitive data is
- a.ii.9 | TODO: define what sensitive data is ?
- a.ii.10 | TODO: Seek out policies we can inherit from ACF Tech

a.iii The following events must be identified within network device (e.g., router, firewall, switch, wireless access point) audit logs:

- All are inherited from Azure

b. Inherited from Azure

c. TODO: ??

d. TODO: ?
- Log in lockouts are inherited from AMS
- Infrastructure configuration changes are inherited from Azures
- Application alerts and error messages are logged within OPS.
- OPS Administration activities are logged within OPS.
- Modifications of privileges and access for OPS are logged within OPS
- OPS Account provisioning is logged within OPS.
- Account modification, role assignment(s), and disabling is logged within OPS

e. Review and update is the responsibility of ACF Tech

### Control Origination

### Related Files

HHS/OPRE-OPS#664

TODO: so many screenshots
