# Risk Assessment
## RA-05 - Vulnerability Scannings

a. Monitor and scan for vulnerabilities in the system and hosted applications [per the frequency defined in the HHS Policy for Vulnerability Management or ACF policy] and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system are identified and reported;

b. Employ vulnerability monitoring tools and techniques that facilitate interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability management process by using standards for:

1. Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;
2. Formatting checklists and test procedures; and
3. Measuring vulnerability impact;

c. Analyze vulnerability scan reports and results from vulnerability monitoring;

d. Remediate legitimate vulnerabilities [per HHS Standard for Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) Management and Reporting or ACF policies] in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk;

e. Share information obtained from the vulnerability monitoring process and control assessments with [ACF-defined personnel or roles] to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other systems; and

f. Employ vulnerability monitoring tools that include the capability to readily update the vulnerabilities to be scanned.

### OPS Implementation

Part (a): As OPS  is hosted in the ACF Tech-managed Azure Tenant Environment, ACF Tech conducts required scans on a monthly frequency and any time when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system are identified and reported. 

These scans include Bi-monthly system level vulnerability scans, Monthly Dynamic application scans, yearly SYNACK penetration tests. In addition, Automated scans are run on every push, pull request, and merge on GitHub at the OPS application level. The first initial scans for OPS have been planned by the ACF Tech ISSE. See Please see POA&M# OPS-RA-05. 

Part (b,1-3): The ACF Tech System Scanning Requirements 2024 document and the OPS Configuration Management Plan documents in detail the tools, techniques, and processes involved in vulnerability management.

Part (c-d): OPS will review and analyze vulnerability scan reports and will ensure all legitimate vulnerabilities to be timely and adequately remediated as per HHS Standard for Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) Management, ACF policies, and the OPS Configuration Management Plan] in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk. 

Part (e): Information from the scan reports and control assessments are shared with the appropriate security stakeholders and will be always readily available for review in our GitHub repository or from ACF Tech-native tools.

Part (f): Vulnerability monitoring tools are described in detail in the OPS Configuration Management Plan. The vulnerability monitoring tools in use by ACF Tech and OPS are updated for the vulnerabilities to be scanned and such configuration is available for inspection and audit. Please also see the Azure implementation in their respective SSP. 


### Control Origination:

Hybrid with Azure, ACF Tech (AMS), and OPS

### Related Content

HHS/ACF needs to have a documented process for vulnerability scanning with identified roles and responsibilities, incorporating appropriate federal oversight and separation of duties.
