# Access Control
## AC-02 - Account Management

The organization:

a. Identifies and selects the following types of information system accounts to support organizational missions/business functions: (individual, shared, group, system, guest/anonymous, emergency, developer/manufacturer/vendor, temporary, and service);

b. Assigns account managers for information system accounts;

c. Establishes conditions for group and role membership;

d. Specifies authorized users of the information system, group and role membership, and access authorizations (i.e., privileges) and other attributes (as required) for each account;

e. Requires approvals by (applicable information system managers) for requests to create information system accounts;

f. Creates, enables, modifies, disables, and removes information system accounts in accordance with [i. Favorable suitability adjudication, as appropriate for Federal and contractor employees.<br />
ii. Completion of the HHS RoB and, as needed, system-specific RoB.<br />
iii. Completion of HHS/ACF cybersecurity and privacy awareness training.<br />
iv. Individual and unique assignment of user credentials.];

g. Monitors the use of information system accounts;

h. Notifies account managers:

   1. When accounts are no longer required;
   2. When users are terminated or transferred; and
   3. When individual information system usage or need-to-know changes;

i. Authorizes access to the information system based on:

   1. A valid access authorization;
   2. Intended system usage; and
   3. Other attributes as required by the organization or associated missions/business functions;

j. Reviews accounts for compliance with account management requirements [at least every 365 days]; and

k. Establishes a process for reissuing shared/group account credentials (if deployed) when individuals are removed from the group.

For CSP Only: AC-2 (j) [at least annually]

## OPS Implementation
a. OPS does not make use of shared, group, temporary, or emergency accounts. Within the context of the IaaS (Azure) used to serve and host OPS, some non-human service accounts (aka service principals) do exist and are utilized for the purposes of Continuous Deployment (CD) from GitHub to Azure. The validity of any human accounts used to access OPS itself is managed via [AMS](https://ams.hhs.gov/).

b. The System Owner is the initial and default account manager. They may delegate additional account managers as needed.

c. OPS users, including those who would function as an account manager, posessing the named role of "System Admin" determine if necessarry conditions are met for a given user's group or role membership based on that user's unique job function. The activities of each of the other roles can be found in [AC-05](./ac-05.md) and [AC-03](./ac-03.md)

d. The roles in the OPS system follow the principles of least privilege and separation of duties as described in [AC-05](./ac-05.md) and [AC-06](./ac-06.md).  Users within each role inherit the responsibilities, duties, and permissions of that role. Outside of the OPS system itself, groups/roles/access for Developers and production support personnel are enforced through the access management features of GitHub and Azure's Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). See section f.

e. All users who require access to the OPS application must have a valid pre-existing AMS account. The System Admin(s) must explicitly allow a named AMS account holder access to OPS. Once a user is configured for access to OPS, the user will be able to perform their assigned duties. Additionally, the System Admin(s) approves all requests for accounts to GitHub and Azure as well.

f. An OPS account manager has the ability to approve new users, alter assigned permissions/roles, inactivate users, and reactivate users.
TODO: Discuss with Sheila

g. The System Admin reviews the list of OPS application users every 180 days and/or when the status of a user is changed to inactive or terminated.  Additionally, the System Admin provides logs of user actions that can be monitored and reviewed. Azure Audit Logs provides tools to audit the logs of actions taken within Azure. TODO: Document Azure Audit log creation

h. At initial release, internal processes are executed to satisfy this requirement, including the System Admin manually checking the list of active/expected users with those registered in the system on a periodic basis. TODO: Need a user admin interface for System Admin

i. Access is authorized based on the pre-approved need for individuals to access the information within OPS.
TODO: Does AMS have a list of allowed applications for users can use it

j. The System Admin reviews the OPS application users list every 180 days.

k. Not Applicable - there are no shared/group account credentials in the OPS application.

### Control Origination

Hybrid with ACF Tech and OPS

### Related Content
