# Access Control

## AC-05 - Separation of Duties

The organization:
a.Identify and document:

[i. Security administration is an independent responsibility and shall not be assigned to a system/application programmer, database administrator, system administrator, system operator, or security auditor. Functions performed by security administrators shall be
entirely separated from the functions performed by system/application programmers, database administrators, system administrators, system operators, and security auditors.

ii. Security administrators’ functions shall be separated security auditors’ functions to reduce the likelihood of fraudulent action (i.e., failing to report on or mitigate security issues).

iii. Security auditors shall have full administrative control over all security audit and log files. These personnel, however, will not have data altering capability for security devices, security management devices, audit and security logs, or ACF infrastructure devices.]; and

b. Define system access authorizations to support separation of duties.

Note: Separation of duties addresses the potential for abuse of authorized privileges and helps to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion. Separation of duties includes, for example: (i) dividing mission functions and information system support functions among different individuals and/or roles; (ii) conducting information system support functions with different individuals (e.g., system management, programming, configuration management, quality assurance and testing, and network security); and (iii) ensuring system administrators do not also perform independent audit functions.

Additional FedRAMP Requirements and Guidance: Guidance: CSPs have the option to provide a separation of duties matrix as an attachment to the SSP. Directions for attaching the Separation of Duties Matrix document may be found in Section 15.11 ATTACHMENT 11 - Separation of Duties Matrix.

### OPS Implementation


**Part a.**
OPS has explicitly defined the roles and responsibilities that users perform to operate and maintain the system. This includes data creation and processing, software development, maintenance, and security implementation.

* Read-Only User: Has read-only permissions to most OPS data. Limited exceptions are inclusive of access to information about other users or roles, to which this role has no such access.
* Standard User: In addition to the permissions granted by the read-only user role, this role gives permissions to create and alter (or request permission to alter) many objects and data within OPS pursuant to the user's job function. Cannot view or alter other users.
* Approver: Very similar to the standard user role with the added permission that these users can access requests to alter certain datasets and either grant or reject the requests. Cannot view or alter other users.
* Budget Team: In addition to the permissions granted by the standard user role, this role adds extra permissions to manage certain objects in particular scenarios (i.e. CANs)
* System Admin: Unrestricted access to all tasks involving other user accounts including the ability to alter other user accounts. This role includes permissions to audit and create reports on other users' activity. This is the only OPS role that can create/provision, disable, modify, or control permissions/roles of a user.

Developers of the OPS application are responsible for the software development and maintenance of the system.

- Developers are granted only enough permission within GitHub and the Azure hosting environment to support the specific developer's duties.

**Part b.**

TODO: need some review

* System Admin: The System Admin(s) has the ability to manage OPS user accounts for the purpose of provisioning, disabling, and re-enabling them. The System Admin may also audit activities of other users involving changes to data as well as auditing management of user accounts.

* Standard User and Budget Team: These users can only edit data in certain limited states without documennted approval from users with other roles. Once certain data reaches a particular level of criticality, any attempts by these users to change the data must go through an approval process which is thoroughly logged and immutable by application users.

* Approver: These users must expressly approve production data changes requested by users holding the Standard User and Budget Team roles as described previously.

* Developers: Developers are granted only enough permission within GitHub repositories and the Azure hosting environment to support the specific developer's duties. All source code and documentation committed to the repositories mut be approved. All activity occurring within the Azure hosting environment is immutably logged for later audit capability.

### Control Origination

TODO: ??


#### Related Content
