# Access Control
## AC-03 - Access Enforcement

Enforce approved authorizations for logical access to information and system resources in accordance with applicable access control policies.

### OPS Implementation

The following roles have been identified for the system:

* Read-Only User: Has read-only permissions to most OPS data. Limited exceptions are inclusive of access to information about other users or roles, to which this role has no such access.

* Standard User: In addition to the permissions granted by the read-only user role, this role gives permissions to create and alter (or request permission to alter) many objects and data within OPS pursuant to the user's job function. Cannot view or alter other users.

* Approver: Very similar to the standard user role with the added permission that these users can access requests to alter certain datasets and either grant or reject the requests. Cannot view or alter other users.

* Budget Team: In addition to the permissions granted by the standard user role, this role adds extra permissions to manage certain objects in particular scenarios (i.e. CANs)

* User Admin: Only provides access to disable or lock user accounts and conversely to enable or unlock accounts. Users possessing this role can also alter the role(s) associated with other user accounts.

* System Admin: Unrestricted access to all operations and data with the exception of user management.

OPS performs Role Based Access Control at the API Endpoint layer to determine whether a user has access to a specific resource. These checks are performed at each REST verb layer, determining whether users can CREATE, READ, MODIFY or DELETE any of those resources. Regardless of the User Interface, this RBAC system will remain in place at the REST API Endpoints.

### Control Origination

OPS

### Related Content

This control is selected as a "critical" control by ACF Tech

* [AC-2](./ac-02.md)
* [AC-4](./ac-04.md)
* [AC-5](./ac-05.md)
* [AC-6](./ac-06.md)
* [AC-16](./ac-16.md)
* [AC-17](./ac-17.md)
* [AC-18](./ac-18.md)
* [AC-19](./ac-19.md)
* [AC-20](./ac-20.md)
* [AC-21](./ac-21.md)
* [AC-22](./ac-22.md)
* [AC-24](./ac-24.md)
* [AC-25](./ac-25.md)
* [AU-9](../au/au-09.md)
* [CM-5](../cm/cm-05.md)
* [CM-11](../cm/cm-11.md)
* [IA-2](../ia/ia-02.md)
* [IA-5](../ia/ia-05.md)
* [IA-6](../ia/ia-06.md)
* [IA-7](../ia/ia-07.md)
* [IA-11](../ia/ia-11.md)
* [SA-17](../sa/sa-17.md)
* [SC-2](../sc/sc-02.md)
* [SC-3](../sc/sc-03.md)
* [SC-4](../sc/sc-04.md)
* [SC-12](../sc/ssc-12.md)
* [SC-13](../sc/sc-13.md)
* [SC-28](../sc/sc-28.md)
* [SC-31](../sc/sc-31.md)
* [SC-34](../sc/sc-34.md)
* [SI-4](../si/si-04.md)
* [SI-8](../si/si-08.md)
