# Account Management
## AC-04 - Information Flow Enforcement

Enforce approved authorizations for controlling the flow of information within the system and between connected systems based on:

a. Keep export-controlled information from being transmitted unencrypted.

b. Restrict web requests to the Internet that are not from the internal web proxy server.

c. Limit information transfers between organizations based on data structures and content.

d. Require a signed interagency agreement or interconnection security agreement (ISA) prior to transmission of information for interconnected systems.

e. Require the connecting organization to have a valid Authority to Operate prior to connection and transmission.

f. Positive source and destination address checking to restrict rogue networks from manipulating the ACF routing tables.

g. Authentication to ensure that routing tables do not become corrupted with false entries.

h. Use network address translation to obfuscate internal network addresses

i. Email data leak prevention to maintain compliance, identify and monitor the safe handling of PII.

j. Firewalls shall limit inbound and outbound network traffic to only that which is necessary to accomplish the ACF mission.

### OPS Implementation

a. Inherited from ACF Tech Infrastructure and Azure

b. For the OPS application itself, users are permitted only to connect via TCP port 443.

c. Not applicable

d. Not applicable

e. Not applicable

f. Not applicable

g. Access to alter the Azure VNET routing tables is limited to users with high-level administrative access to the Azure environment hosting OPS. This access is granted and maintained by the Account Manager.

h. For IPv4 address space, NAT is utilized in the network path between public-facing OPS clients and internal infrastructure components

i. Automated emails sent via OPS are formed using pre-approved templates and would not knowingly contain any PII.

j. The Azure security technologies in use for the frontend and backend OPS components are configured only to allow inbound and outbound traffic from clients where the destination port matches those of the ports required for valid user connectivity to OPS. Some application functionality interacts directly with Azure APIs.

TODO: Find some inherited text from Azure as well for azure storage.

### Control Origination

Hybrid with Azure, ACF Tech, and OPS

### Related Content

TODO: Examine Azure SSP
