# Access Control
## AC-17 - Remote Access

a. Establish and document usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and

b. Authorize each type of remote access to the system prior to allowing such connections.

### OPS Implementation

Part (a): The primary method of remote accessing into OPS system is using HHS/ACF issued GFE and PIV card logging mechanism. In cases where it  is not possible to use a PIV card, (i.e. it was inactivated, lost, or if the user is a new hire, and has not yet received a PIV card) the user is required to go through a PIV Exception approval process for an alternative mechanism.

In addition, OPS developers and maintainers utilize a secure VPN using Azure-native tooling (making use of TLS over TCP port 443) to provide limited access to key OPS infrastructure components necessary to operate and maintain the OPS production environment

Part (b): All remote access is authorized prior to connection and all users are required to adhere to all remote access restrictions, configuration, and connection requirements. 

### Control Origination

OPS

### Related Content

Remote access is access to organizational systems (or processes acting on behalf of users) that communicate through external networks such as the Internet. Types of remote access include dial-up, broadband, and wireless. Organizations use encrypted virtual private networks (VPNs) to enhance confidentiality and integrity for remote connections. The use of encrypted VPNs provides sufficient assurance to the organization that it can effectively treat such connections as internal networks if the cryptographic mechanisms used are implemented in accordance with applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Still, VPN connections traverse external networks, and the encrypted VPN does not enhance the availability of remote connections. VPNs with encrypted tunnels can also affect the ability to adequately monitor network communications traffic for malicious code. Remote access controls apply to systems other than public web servers or systems designed for public access. Authorization of each remote access type addresses authorization prior to allowing remote access without specifying the specific formats for such authorization.

This control is selected as a "critical" control by ACF Tech
