# Planning
## PL-02 - System Security and Privacy Plans

a. Develop security and privacy plans for the system that:<br />
1. Are consistent with the organization’s enterprise architecture;
2. Explicitly define the constituent system components;
3. Describe the operational context of the system in terms of mission and business processes;
4. Identify the individuals that fulfill system roles and responsibilities;
5. Identify the information types processed, stored, and transmitted by the system;
6. Provide the security categorization of the system, including supporting rationale;
7. Describe any specific threats to the system that are of concern to the organization;
8. Provide the results of a privacy risk assessment for systems processing personally identifiable information;
9. Describe the operational environment for the system and any dependencies on or connections to other systems or system components;
10. Provide an overview of the security and privacy requirements for the system;
11. Identify any relevant control baselines or overlays, if applicable;
12. Describe the controls in place or planned for meeting the security and privacy requirements, including a rationale for any tailoring decisions;
13. Include risk determinations for security and privacy architecture and design decisions;
14. Include security- and privacy-related activities affecting the system that require planning and coordination with [appropriate internal or external stakeholders, groups, or organizations  as defined by ACF]; and
15. Are reviewed and approved by the authorizing official or designated representative prior to plan implementation.

b. Distribute copies of the plans and communicate subsequent changes to the plans to [appropriate personnel (including, but not limited to, System Owner, Authorizing Official, Information System Security Officer, System/Network Administrator) and subsequent changes to the plan must be communicated to the same personnel];

c. Review the plans [at least every 365 days or when a significant change occurs to the information system’s operating environment or security requirements];

d. Update the plans to address changes to the system and environment of operation or problems identified during plan implementation or control assessments; and

e. Protect the plans from unauthorized disclosure and modification.

## OPS Implementation

Part (a 1-15): OPS has developed a System Security and Privacy Plan (SSP) taking into consideration all the requirements form 1-15 and the plan will be the main part of the ATO package.

Part (b): The OPS SSP copies will publish and communicated to all relevant stakeholders including, but not limited to, System Owner, Authorizing Official, Information System Security Officer, System/Network Administrators. 

Part (c & d): The OPS SSP will be reviewed and updated at least every 365 days or when a significant change occurs to the information system’s operating environment or security requirements. 

Part (e): The SSP and any accompanying apporting artifacts are secured under the auspices of ACF Tech policies and enforcement.

See also the AMS/Azure SSPs. 

### Control Origination

Hybrid with Azure, ACF Tech (AMS), and OPS.

### Related Content
